---
Layout: 
Title: "forEach"
date: "2020-10-23"
Categories:
---

## Introduction 

I will share about how the week was

## Body 

I will share what I learned regard forEach loop.

## forEach loop 

forEach() calls a provided callback function once for each element in an array in ascending order. It is not invoked for index properties that have been deleted or are uninitialized.

### Syntax

arr.forEach(callback(currentValue[, index[, array]]) {
  // execute something
}[, thisArg]);

The callback is invoked with three arguments:

1.the value of the element

2.the index of the element

3.the Array object being traversed

The range of elements processed by forEach() is set before the first invocation of callback. Elements which are appended to the array after the call to forEach() begins will not be visited by callback. If existing elements of the array are changed or deleted, their value as passed to callback will be the value at the time forEach() visits them; elements that are deleted before being visited are not visited. If elements that are already visited are removed.

forEach() executes the callback function once for each array element; unlike map() or reduce() it always returns the value undefined and is not chainable. The typical use case is to execute side effects at the end of a chain.

forEach() does not mutate the array on which it is called.

## Conclusion

In conclusion regarding what I have learned when it comes to forEach and for loop is that the is no difference in what they can achieve it all depends on which do you understand well.