---
Layout:
Title: "My day"
date: 2021-06-04
---

## Introduction

I will share an additional feature to the recipe-box app, the difference between history and redirect in react-router-dom.

## Body

So I manage to add a feature that displays an error if one or all input fields are empty will display an error saying 'Can't submit the form with an empty field' and add useEffect which checks if the error is true and set a timeout which after 5 seconds set the error back to empty strings. And in the recipeList component add a condition that checks if the array which saves the recipe is greater than zero and if it maps the data and else it displays a text saying 'Currently, the is no recipes available'.

### Difference between the redirect and history in react-router-dom

#### Redirect

Rendering a <Redirect> will navigate to a new location. The new location will override the current location in the history stack like server-side redirects (HTTP 3xx) do.

##### whereas History

push function Pushes a new entry onto the history stack

The <Redirect> component will, by default, replace the current location with a new location in the history stack, basically working as a server-side redirect.

But it can also be used with the property push and in this case, it will push a new entry into the history stack, working the same way as history.push.

The <Redirect> component uses the history push and replace methods behinds the scene. It is just a more React way of navigating.

So basically you have two ways of navigating:

Use the history.push and history.replace in a component (usually wrapped with the withRouter HOC, so that you can have access to the location object without having to pass it from parent to child.

Use the <Redirect> component with or without the push property, depending

## Conclusion

IN conclusion, so in the recipe-box app want to try and implement a spinner for incoming data from the database and it comes to the history and redirect in react-router-dom I would say that it only depends on if you want the current location with a new location in the history stack.
