---
Layout:
Title: "my week"
date: 2021-03-05
---

## Introduction

I will share about my week and some of the struggles that I have faced and where came to solving them.

## Body

This week was a busy week for me as I was busy with Moral activity which required doing some of the things that I did not know like redux-persist, uploading an image when you submit a form and display it, express server, middleware, and useParams.

Some will share a little about useParams.

useParams is a react-router hook in which route parameters are parts of the URL that will change based on the object we want to display. For example, in the work that moral gave us wanted to view information on car id, we would visit the path /confirmationPage/id. The last part of the URL is the parameter. In react-router, we can select a dynamic portion of the URL to e matched by putting a colon (:)before it.

### Example of a route with URL parameter

<Route path="/confirmationPage/:id" children={<ConfirmationPage />} />

Created a route path with 'confirmationPage/:id" if the path matches a component confirmationPage will be rendered with the id of the matching item.

### Showing the id of the matching item\

 <Link to={`/confirmationPage/${car.id}`}>
    <Button onClick={() => selectCar(car.id)}>
        Interested
    </Button>
</Link>

So used Link react-router to the path referenced the path of confirmationPage component in the map function and passed the car. The id is a URL parameter when someone clicks on the "interested" button. Every time the confirmationPage component renders a unique id will be displayed on the URL parameter in the browser.

## Conclusion

The was a busy one because there was a little a lot learning new concepts and solving problems so I would say that now I am a little bit confident in my coding skills.
