---
Layout:
Title: "Firebase"
date: 2021-05-13
---

## Introduction

I will share about firebase and a problem that I faced while trying to add an env to the react tcg-student-tracker app.

## Body

### What is firebase?

Firebase is a toolset to “build, improve, and grow your app”, and the tools it gives you cover a large portion of the services that developers would normally have to build themselves, but don’t want to build, because they’d rather be focusing on the app experience itself. This includes things like analytics, authentication, databases, configuration, file storage, push messaging, and the list goes on. The services are hosted in the cloud and scale with little to no effort on the part of the developer.

### Env is working

So Moral told us that we need to do some change to the tcg-student-tracker app so the first thing that he told was to move the firebase keys to a .env file and also other sensitive data to a .env file and make the project work. This was something I thought would be easy because I'm familiar with the .env file because I have been used them in some of the mern-stack apps. But little did I know that the was a name conversion in react compared to nodejs. So env stands for environment variables so they are variable that you declare for sensitive info like api key, database connection string etc. This is because such info should not be a push to GitHub. So to solve the problem went to the create-react-app docs to read about adding custom environment variables which talks about when creating custom environment variables they should begin with NODE_ENV which is defined for you.

## Conclusion

In conclusion, so when it comes to firebase I would say that I pretty much do not understand that well I just know that it does some of the work for like it does authentication so you do not worry yourself about security.
