---
layout:
Title: "Css-grid"
date: 2021-03-19
---

## Introduction

I will share about doing my first presentation to the new student

## Body

Today I was doing a presentation which was based on css grid, which was a first for me and I would say that I have learned something new when it comes to css grid .

### What is css grid?

A grid is a set of intersecting horizontal and vertical lines defining columns and rows. Elements can be placed onto the grid within these column and row lines.

### How to use grid ?

Creating a grid container you have to apply the display: grid to the parent container which tells the browser that you want to use grid layout.By doing this, the browser will give a block-level box on the element with display: grid and any direct children will start to participate in grid formatting context. This means they behave like grid times, rather than normal block and inline elements.

#### Column and Row

#### grid-template-columns: 100px 100px 200px;

Creates a three-column grid: The first column is 100px, the second 100px, the third 200px.

#### grid-template-columns: min-content max-content fit-content(10em)

Creates a three-column grid: The first column is the min-content size for that track, the second the max-content size. The third is either max-content unless the content is larger than 10em, in which case it is clamped to 10em.

#### grid-template-columns: 1fr 1fr 1fr;

Creates a three-column grid using the fr unit. The available space in the grid container is divided into three and shared between the three columns.

#### grid-template-columns: repeat(2, 10em 1fr);

Creates a four-column grid with a repeating pattern of 10em 1fr 10em 1fr as the track-list in the repeat statement is repeated twice.

## Conclusion

In conclusion, doing this presentation has made me to learn something that I did not know about grid and have learned about little about css too.
