---
Layout:
Title: "My day"
date: 2021-07-30
---

## Introduction

I will share about presenting the assignment that we given

## Body

So the assignment was about the storage rental app which we were supposed to write on paper, we were supposed to show wireframe, user stories, pseudo-code and also for us the second year students we were supposed to also show database design.

### Wireframe

A wireframe is a two-dimensional skeletal outline of a webpage or app. Wireframes provide a clear overview of the page structure, layout, information architecture, user flow, functionality, and intended behaviours. As a wireframe usually represents the initial product concept, styling colour, and graphics are kept to a minimum.

### User stories

A user story is an informal, general explanation of a software feature written from the perspective of the end-user. Its purpose is to articulate how a software feature will provide value to the customer.

It's tempting to think that user stories are, simply put, software system requirements. But they're not.

A key component of agile software development is putting people first, and a user story puts end-users at the centre of the conversation. These stories use non-technical language to provide context for the development team and their efforts. After reading a user story, the team knows why they are building, what they're building, and what value it creates.

### Pseudo code

Pseudocode is a detailed yet readable description of what a computer program or algorithm must do, expressed in a formally styled natural language rather than in a programming language. Pseudocode is sometimes used as a detailed step in the process of developing a program. It allows designers or leads programmers to express the design in great detail and provides programmers with a detailed template for the next step of writing code in a specific programming language.

Because pseudocode is detailed yet readable, it can be inspected by the team of designers and programmers as a way to ensure that actual programming is likely to match design specifications. Catching errors at the pseudocode stage is less costly than catching them later in the development process. Once the pseudocode is accepted, it is rewritten using the vocabulary and syntax of a programming language. Pseudocode is sometimes used in conjunction with computer-aided software engineering-based methodologies.

### Database design

This includes logical (entity relationship) and physical (table, column and key) design tools for data. Physical data modelling is becoming almost mandatory for applications using relational database management systems (RDBMSs). Strong support for physical modelling is paired with facilities to manage multiple models, to submodel or extract from larger models, and to reverse-engineer a database design from established tables. Data architects/analysts and database designers/administrators are the primarily targeted users of these tools, although developers are a secondary market often targeted with a subset of the complete functionality.

## Conclusion

In conclusion, this presentation made me realize that when you do wireframe, database design, user stories, pseudo-code and also presenting to someone it makes you understand more of how the app will work and function in production.
