---
Layout:
Title: "My day"
date: 2021-06-17
---

## Introduction

I will about closure which is used to bundle function to together.

## Body

A closure is the combination of a function bundled together (enclosed) with references to its surrounding state (the lexical environment). In other words, a closure gives you access to an outer function’s scope from an inner function. In JavaScript, closures are created every time a function is created, at function creation time.

init() creates a local variable called name and a function called displayName(). The displayName() function is an inner function that is defined inside init() and is available only within the body of the init() function. Note that the displayName() function has no local variables of its own. However, since inner functions have access to the variables of outer functions, displayName() can access the variable name declared in the parent function, init().

The alert() statement within the displayName() function successfully displays the value of the name variable, which is declared in its parent function. This is an example of lexical scoping, which describes how a parser resolves variable names when functions are nested. The word lexical refers to the fact that lexical scoping uses the location where a variable is declared within the source code to determine where that variable is available. Nested functions have access to variables declared in their outer scope.

### Closure function

const makeFunc=()=> {
let name = 'Mozilla';
const displayName=()=> {
alert(name);
}
return displayName;
}

var myFunc = makeFunc();
myFunc();

## Conclusion

In conclusion, so closure was used before the introduction of callback, promises , and async function etc. So in my case I have seen no use case for it.
