---
Layout:
Title: "Mongodb"
date: 2021-03-24
---

## Introduction

I will share about MongoDB and What I know when it comes to MongoDB

## Body

### What is MongoDB?

MongoDB is a document-oriented NoSQL database used for high-volume data storage. Instead of using tables and rows as in the traditional relational databases, MongoDB makes use of collections and document.

### What is NoSQL?

NoSQL databases are databases that do not use the usual rows and columns that you so much associate with relational database management.

- Collection is a group of database documents
- Document is a set of Key-Value pairs

Today I was practicing connecting to MongoDB and applying the acronym CRUD to do changes to the database. For you to use MongoDB you have to install MongoDB packages which will give you access to the method that comes with MongoDB. If you want to connect to MongoDB you have to use the connect method which takes in two arguments, the first being the connection string and the second being the callback which takes two parameters first being error and the second being client.

const dotenv = require("dotenv");
dotenv.config();
const mongodb = require("mongodb");

// Connecting the app to mongodb
// CRUD
mongodb.connect(
process.env.MONGO_URI,
{ useUnifiedTopology: true },
async (err, client) => {
const db = client.db();
// reading date from the database

    const result = await db.collection("people").find().toArray();

    const person = db.collection("people");
    // Creating a document to the database

    const createPerson = await person.insertOne({
      name: "James",
      age: 72,
      favoriteFoods: ["sushi", "rice", "egg", "beans"],
    });
    // // update a document in the database collection
    const updatePerson = await person.updateOne(
      {
        _id: mongodb.ObjectId("605af6b51b33362ec3ee0b09"),
      },
      { $set: { name: "Ed" } }
    );
    // Deleting a document from the collection in the database

    const deletedPerson = await person.deleteOne({
      _id: mongodb.ObjectId("605af91efe9a582fdd19bbfd"),
    });
    try {
    } catch (error) {
      console.log(err);
    }

    client.close();

}
);

## Conclusion

In conclusion, regardless of anything I would not say that I am comfortable with MongoDB to the point that I can start to implement MongoDB to any of my express servers.
