---
Layout:
Title: "My day"
date: 2021-05-24
---

## Introduction

I will share about the little that I have learned regarding firebase authentication

## Body

So firebase Authentication provides backend services, easy-to-use SDKs, and ready-made UI libraries to authenticate users to your app. It supports authentication using passwords, phone numbers, popular federated identity providers like Google, Facebook and Twitter, and more.

### How firebase authentication

To sign a user into your app, you first get authentication credentials from the user. These credentials can be the user's email address and password, or an OAuth token from a federated identity provider. Then, you pass these credentials to the Firebase Authentication SDK. Our backend services will then verify those credentials and return a response to the client.

After a successful sign in, you can access the user's basic profile information, and you can control the user's access to data stored in other Firebase products. You can also use the provided authentication token to verify the identity of users in your own backend services.

While do learning about authentication also came across the private routes and useHistory which is a react-router-dom method .
PrivateRoute is component that you wrap your app component with which you don't want to be public meaning that you want them to be accessible only for authenticated/authorized users. And useHistory hook gives you access to the history instance that you may use to navigate and which provides several different implementations for managing session history in JavaScript in various environment.

## Conclusion

In conclusion, I was able to do the simple authentication where the user provides the email and password only. The user was able to sign-up with email and password so the email was not check if it is real or not and after that they were directed to the log in page.
