---
Layout:
Title: "packets"
date: 2021-03-09
---

## Introduction

I share what I have regarding packets

## Body

### What are packets?

A packet is the unit of the date that is routed between an origin and a destination on the Internet or any other packet-switched. Network packets are small (around 1.5KBs for Ethernet packets and 64 KBS for IP packet payloads) amounts of data passed over TCP/IP networks.

An example would be web pages that make use of network packets to send information back forth to the user and recipients. The goal of a network packet is to send information reliably so data does not have to be sent as a single, large file. Each packet sent includes information such as the source and destination, the protocols for identifications.

### How packets work

When any file ( HTML file, or URL request) is sent from one place to another on the Internet, the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) layer of TCP/IP divides the file into "chunks" of an efficient size for routing. Each of these packets is separately numbered and includes the Internet address of the destination. The individual packets for a given file may travel different routes through the Internet. When they have all arrived, they are reassembled into the original file (by the TCP layer at the receiving end).

A packet-switching scheme is an efficient way to handle transmissions on a connectionless network such as the Internet. An alternative scheme, circuit-switched, is used for networks allocated for voice connections. In circuit-switching, lines in the network are shared among many users as with packet-switching, but each connection requires the dedication of a particular path for the duration of the connection.

## Conclusion

In conclusion, packets help in making the HTTP request in the server to delay the delivery of packets less and also allows the simultaneous usage of the same channel by multiple users.
