---
Layout:
Title: "codewars"
date: 2021-05-10
---

## Introduction

I will share some katas that I was busy with during the day and some problem that I would say that I have faced.

## Body

So the first kata that I will talk about is 'form the minimum' kata this is a kata where you a given a list of digits, which you required to return the smallest number that can be formed from these digits, using the digits only once and only positive numbers can be passed. So the way I was able to solve this kata was by first remove duplicates so to do that I first created a variable called nonDuplicate which initial was empty and looped through the array that I was receiving as a parameter and created an if statement for if the current values in the for loop does not exist in the nonDuplicate array than push it. And outside the for loop function, I sorted the array from smallest to the biggest and converted the array to a string and then to a number.

### Solution

const minValue(values){
let nonDuplicates = []
for(let i in values){
if(nonDuplicates.indexOf(values[i])==-1){
nonDuplicates.push(values[i])
}

}
let sorted = nonDuplicates.sort()
return Number(sorted.join(''))
}

And the second kata was 'Even or Odd - Which is Greater?' so in this kata you are given a string of digits to confirm whether the sum of all the individual even digits is greater than the sum of all the individual odd digits. Always a string of numbers will be given.

- If the sum of even numbers is greater than the odd numbers return: "Even is greater than Odd"
- If the sum of odd numbers is greater than the sum of even numbers return: "Odd is greater than Even"
- If the total of both even and odd numbers are identical return: "Even and Odd are the same"

So the first thing I did was to a created variable for the sum even number and the odd number was initial were zero and converted a string of numbers to an array so that I can be able to check which numbers in the string are even and odd. Looped through the array and created an if statement that checks if the current number when divided by two does its remainder equal to 0 and if that statement is true I append the number to a variable called evenSum which is responsible for the sum of even numbers and else if the statement is false the number which appends to the oddSum which is responsible for the sum of odd numbers. After that created an if statement to check between the two which one was greater than the other.

### Solution

function evenOrOdd(str) {
let evenSum =0
let oddSum= 0
let num = str.split('')
for(let i in num){
if(num[i]%2 ==0){

    evenSum+= +num[i]

}else{
oddSum+= +num[i] }
}

if( evenSum > oddSum){
return 'Even is greater than Odd'
}else if(oddSum > evenSum){
return 'Odd is greater than Even'
}else {
return 'Even and Odd are the same'
}
}

## Conclusion

In conclusion, doing kata I find it helps in a way of thinking how to approach a problem and understanding that before thinking of doing a problem you should know the type of data you are receiving because it can in you knowing what method you required to solve the problem in the best way.
