---
Layout:
Title: "My day"
date: 2021-08-19
---

## Introduction

I will share about my day

## Body

So today I was busy with the portfolio website so added a section that where I display my current skills so this section is divided into two sections which a displayed as a row and 1 first section is 'design' which contains the markup language HTML and style languages css, sass and also libraries like bootstrap and reactstrap. And the second section contains coding languages like reactjs, JavaScript, Redux, Nodejs, Express.
And all this info was displayed in a form of progress bars with their respective percentages using JavaScript. So to do this I selected the skills-section class container which holds all the progress and progress-bar. And added a method getBoundingClientRect() which returns a DOMRect object providing information about the size of an element and its position relative to the viewport. The returned value is a DOMRect object which is the smallest rectangle that contains the entire element, including its padding and border-width. The left, top, right, bottom, x, y, width, and height properties describe the position and size of the overall rectangle in pixels. Properties other than width and height are relative to the top-left of the viewport.

### Syntax

Element.getBoundingClientRect()

And add window.innerHeight which is the read-only innerHeight property of the Window interface returns the interior height of the window in pixels, including the height of the horizontal scroll bar, if present.

### Syntax

const screenPosition = window.innerHeight

So I compared the between the window.innerHeight and skills.getBoundingClientRect()

window.addEventListener("scroll", () => {
const sectionPos = skills.getBoundingClientRect().top;
const screenPos = window.innerHeight;
if (sectionPos < screenPos) {
showProgress();
} else {
hideProgress();
}
});

## Conclusion

In conclusion, So I manage to do 80% of the work on the website so tomorrow I will do responsiveness.
