--- 
Layout: 
Title: "API"
date: 2021-03-16
---

## Introduction

I will share little that I know about API and why there are important
## Body

### What's an API?

An API stands for Application Programming Interface is simply something the sends information back and forth between a website or app and a user. An API mediates the connection between the systems via n interface, creating an environment for their interaction. There several types of API, such as database API, operating system API, but the most common one is web API

### Three types of API 

#### External APIs (open APIs)

APIs that can be accessed by third parties (developers, etc). An example of an open API is google maps which can be used by developers if they want to embed a map in their app. 


#### Internal APIs (closed APIs)

APIs that are inaccessible to third-parties but available to in-house developers. An of a closed API would be information that users use to login to Facebook would not be accessible to third-party developers.

#### Partner APIs

APIs that can be accessible to third-parties through exclusive permission from the organization that owns the API.

### The importance of APIs

1. Authentication - inshore that the information the user is passing is valid or not.
2. HTTP call Types -
3. Endpoint- helps with the interaction between the user and the database.
4. URI structures - This helps to document the structure and methods for each URI within the API.

 

## Conclusion

In conclusion, API can be useful when it comes to being a developer because it can save you time if you want dummy data to use in your application then you creating the data from scratch.